Introduction

The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly impacted society in many different aspects, one of the most notable being the workforce. In March 2020, most companies were forced to implement remote work procedures and, having grown used to this new way of life, many elected not to return to the office even once the pandemic was declared to be over. San Francisco is one example of a prominent American city facing the ramifications of this post-pandemic digital era as office vacancy rates continue to increase, while rent prices continue to fall. This paper will examine data and trends to answer how the city of San Francisco has been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in terms of the labor market and demand for office space. Specifically, I will test the hypothesis that the increase in office vacancy rates is affecting business activity and public transit ridership rates. As less people commute into the city, more businesses will close. 



Findings

With the rapidly rising rates of office vacancy in San Francisco, it was expected that many other factors would be affected or have had an effect on this. First, the vacancy rates can definitely be attributed to the coronavirus pandemic in 2020. The pandemic caused a shift in workplace culture and brought more flexibility to employees in professional services, who don’t need to be onsite to get their work done. In turn, public transit is not being used at the same rates as it was prior to 2020. While there is a pretty clear link between ridership and office vacancy, there was no publicly available dataset to analyze this information. For this reason, this paper examined the relationship between two variables that affected or could have been affected by the vacancy rates: public transportation ridership and business closures. Using ridership as the independent variable and business closures as the dependent variable, it was determined that the two were slightly positively correlated and had a statistically significant relationship.
As the height of the pandemic is only three years behind us, there is still a lot that is unknown about the long-term effects on society. It’s possible that more companies in San Francisco will follow the examples of those in other cities and require more employees to return to the office, even for a few days each week, therefore causing office vacancy rates to decline. For future studies, it would be helpful to include office vacancy rates and/or proportion of people who telecommute as independent variables and test the relationship correlation with a number of dependent variables including but not limited to public transit ridership, business closures, rent prices, and job growth.
